Bloomberg: "India's bad debt is next only to Italy"
India has a massive bad debt problem in its banking system:
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-07-04/india-s-growing-bad-debt-problem-is-second-only-to-italy-map
India is closing in on Italy for the dubious distinction of having the worst bad-loan ratio among the world’s major economies. With the Reserve Bank of India forecasting a worsening in the nation’s soured debt problem, acting Finance Minister Piyush Goyal said Monday that banks will consider setting up widely-held asset management companies to take over non-performing loans from lenders. The companies would take over delinquent accounts worth more than $73 million (note: Rs 500 crores) and bring in turn-around specialists to revive the assets before selling them to recover loans, according to a proposal from a government-appointed panel.
 

 
https://www.cnbc.com/2018/06/28/india-banking-crisis-experts-say-growth-opportunity-for-private-banks.html
 
India's public-sector financial institutions control about 70 percent of all banking assets in the country, but they have the highest exposure to soured loans amounting to as much as $150 billion. In fact, the 21 state-owned banks had stressed loans of about 8.26 trillion rupees ($120 billion) as of Dec. 31, Reuters reported. Private sector lenders, meanwhile, reportedly had a bad loan pile of just about 1.1 trillion rupees.
India's problem is that we had a staid public sector led banking system (State Bank of India, Indian Overseas Bank and so on) that was already making lending decisions based on political pressure.  The cost of that system was the old "Hindu rate of growth" (i.e. sluggish 2-3% growth) during the socialist decades.  When liberalization and globalization arrived, India did not reform the banking sector, because that would be too politically painful. Instead, these lumbering public sector giants put on a modern coat of paint, and lent vastly bigger sums to politically well-connected corporate groups. 
 
All this was aided and abetted by the vast influx of dollars flowing into India, which became "reserves" for the RBI, and the RBI issued rupees to "sterilize" that inflow.  The Federal Reserve, ECB and BOJ created lots of money that become reserves for developing countries like India, an effect akin to leaving cases and cases of vodka and whiskey in the undergraduate dorms with no questions asked.  Recently Urjit Patel begged the Federal Reserve to please please continue the dollar printing, in a perfect demonstration of how well India got hooked.
 
There were times just a couple of years ago that our own bankers in India have begged us to borrow, because they had so much surplus funds that they didn't know what to do with. If we had wanted to, we could have borrowed hundreds, perhaps thousands, of crores and spent it on lavish projects, and we are not even politically connected.

It is not only the corporate houses. Recently my father told me the story of a farmer in our village, who bought a new tractor by taking a loan, made exactly one payment, and then stopped paying. He is confident the loan will be eventually waived (elections are coming!) so why be the fool that actually repays loans?
"This government has taken a harder stance along with the [Reserve Bank of India], saying that 'you know this is a structural issue, we can't keep bailing out these banks.' It's too much of a waste of public money," Rajah said. He explained that the government would not allow state lenders to default, but it is also not going to guarantee profitability.

Still, in January, the government said it would disburse nearly $14 billion into 20 public banks by March in exchange for them implementing reforms. That was part of a broader undertaking announced last October, where the government said it would inject about $33 billion into its state-run lenders over two years.
 
That $33 billion is money that could have built some infrastructure in our major cities (the Mumbai bridge collapse shows the desperate need). Now the money has to be spent to protect the depositors in public sector banks to make up for the foolish lending decisions made in the past.  Economic decisions have consequences.

I am afraid the financial situation is going to get worse, much worse, before it gets better.