Trump's Trade War and the Parallel to Richard Nixon
Donald Trump's first round of tariffs on about $30 billion of imports from China, took effect last Friday.  Trump has threatened even bigger tariffs down the road, and not just on China. Practically every country, from Mexico to Germany, from India to Japan, are in Trump's list of "bad guys who took advantage of America" on trade.
While Trump is an unpredictable and volatile character who could blow up the world to feed his ego, there is a real problem here that was not caused by Trump. 
The problem is that the global trade system today sits on a deeply flawed foundation.  Essentially, the system requires America to run massive trade deficits, a direct effect of the US dollar being the reserve currency.  When you hear of the Reserve Bank of India holding $420 billion in reserves, those reserves are really US government securities (i.e. debt issued by the US government). China has over $3 trillion of reserves, again mostly held in US government securities.
The Bretton Woods System and the Nixon Shock
We need a little bit of history to understand  the present situation.  The global financial system today traces its origin to the Bretton Woods Agreement, forged after World War II, in order to provide a stable foundation for global peace and prosperity.  This was done in good faith, in order to avoid another destructive global war.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bretton_Woods_system
Keynes' proposals would have established a world reserve currency (which he thought might be called "bancor") administered by a central bank vested with the possibility of creating money and with the authority to take actions on a much larger scale.
 
In case of balance of payments imbalances, Keynes recommended that both debtors and creditors should change their policies. As outlined by Keynes, countries with payment surpluses should increase their imports from the deficit countries, build factories in debtor nations, or donate to them—and thereby create a foreign trade equilibrium.[12] Thus, Keynes was sensitive to the problem that placing too much of the burden on the deficit country would be deflationary.
 
But the United States, as a likely creditor nation, and eager to take on the role of the world's economic powerhouse, used White's plan but targeted many of Keynes's concerns. White saw a role for global intervention in an imbalance only when it was caused by currency speculation.
 
Although compromise was reached on some points, because of the overwhelming economic and military power of the United States the participants at Bretton Woods largely agreed on White's plan.
 
 
So the system adopted was to keep the US dollar as reserve currency. The US dollar was formally pegged to gold  i.e. the Federal Reserve promised to redeem the US dollar for a fixed amount of gold, $35 for an ounce of gold (today's price:  about $1250 per ounce).
At that time the US was a creditor nation (i.e. a net exporter to the world).  This made the US dollar "scarce"  or "as good as gold" in the eyes of all the importing nations, which was practically everyone else. The system worked as long as the US had the discipline imposed by the fixed converibility to gold.
Unfortunately,  within a decade or two after the war, the US started running trade deficits (importing more than it exported).  France realized that the US dollar was not as scarce as it used to be (and yet foreigners were treating it as if it were scarce), and so demanded to covert its dollars to gold.  This led Richard Nixon to abandon the converibility of US dollar to gold at the promised price.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nixon_shock
After that major shock administered by Nixon,  the reserve currency still continued to be the dollar,  but from now on US dollar was not backed by anything.  Without that discipline, American trade deficits started to increase steadily, and in the past 2 decades, deficits have exploded.
Back to Trump
These persistent deficits is what has caused Trump to accuse practically every country in the world of taking advantage of the US.  In reality, it is a combination of a) the Bretton Woods system making the US dollar the reserve currency, in an era when the US ran surpluses and the US dollar was pegged to gold b) the US started running deficits, which made countries like France jittery about the integrity of their dollar reserves c) Richard Nixon abandons the gold standard d) the US now runs vastly bigger deficits, and the resulting US debt become reserves for the world.
Who will you blame here?  Before you think "that crook Nixon", realize that he was dealt a bad hand by his predecessor Lyndon B Johnson, a democrat, who had the famous "Guns and Butter" policy of an expensive war in Vietnam as well as major welfare programs at home, all financed with deficits.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guns_versus_butter_model
As they say "it is all complicated".  Trump doesn't deal in "complicated".  He thinks he can solve all this by bluster and threats.
Until now,  most people thought of it as Trump's aggressive negotiating style or bluster ("The Art of the Deal" is the title of his book) and assumed he will find a compromise in the last minute. Even now, Wall Street seems to believe that Trump won't escalate it much further.  I am not so sure anymore.
The global economic situation is already precarious. While the US economy seems to be in good health right now, that is an illusion brought on by the sugar-high of massive deficit spending (deficit is now $1 trillion per year as far as the eye can see), and the Trump tax cuts.  The financial position of the US government got bad under Bush, deteriorated more under Obama and now deteriorating more rapidly under Trump.  There is currency depreciation in most emerging markets, including India.
What lies ahead?
If Trump persists on this path, his trade war could escalate to a point where the world slides into an economic depression.  Many of us have watched the rising debt levels in the world, have thought that a major global downturn is inevitable. Trump's trade war could make the inevitable downturn into a severe global depression.  If we had the wisest leadership in the world, we would still have to endure pain to resolve these serious problems. But we have Trump.
In other words,  Trump inherited a messy world with an unworkable financial system, and he is actively making the problem worse. 
The parallel to Nixon is that Nixon was a crook who became President, and eventually got impeached, but he had done serious damage to the US and the world by then.  The exact same thing could happen to Trump.
A similar theme "there is a real problem not caused by Trump, as much as you hate Trump" applies to other issues too. Until American progressive liberals find some common sense and quit their extreme obsession over race, gender, sexual orientation, open borders and identity politics all the time and focus on other important problems in the real world, Trumpism is going to keep finding willing voters in America, particularly among people at the bottom half of the economic ladder.  The more the progressive liberals double down on their favorite obessions and demonize those Trump voters, the more  such voters they will create.  This is a major problem for America, but now it is also a serious problem for the world.