“The only way to keep a secret is to never have one.”
Julian Assange — a computer programmer, a journalist, and an activist.

born on July 3, 1971 in Australia, Assange did not have a “normal” childhood, but rather an unconventional one. Throughout his young years, he never stayed at one place for too long; he moved thirty-seven times and had never attended school because of that. Instead, he studied with his mother at home and by mail. He was an avid reader, and curious about everything that was happening around him. According to Michael Ray from Encyclopedia Britannica, as a teenager, Assange was interested in programming and lived a mobile life, as he and his mother were always on the run from an abusive ex-boyfriend. Assange never stopped learning, however, and the age of sixteen he learned to hack into computer networks; he later joined a group of hackers, known as International Subversives. Four years later, his illegal activities landed him into trouble with the Australian federal authorities who arrested him, but later let him go after paying monetary damages. As he became an adult, he retained his habit of hacking, and in 2006 he entered the international stage after publishing his website WikiLeaks.com , a non-profit which publishes secret information, news leaks, and classified media provided by anonymous sources.
Today, Julian Assange is known for possessing a library of more than ten million documents and having published classified documents and cables about the Iraq Apache helicopter attack, operating procedures at Guantanamo Bay, controversial documents about the Church of Scientology, leaked documents from corporations like Sony, U.S. diplomatic cables, hacked DNC election emails, and thousands of other notable releases that expose illegal activities and unethical practices from governments, private entities and other institutions. Those releases have sparked public outrage, raised concerns and questions about privacy, accountability and transparency, and they have led to retaliatory actions from all affected sides.
Even though Assange’s name makes the headlines every so often, there is not much discussion about his real impact in our world today. Julian Assange did not just create a platform that whistleblowers like himself could use to expose wrongdoing and bring secrets to the public eye — he achieved more than that: He contributed and had a significant impact to the evolution of mass communication in several ways. (1) Assange innovated upon and exploited the news-making process, establishing partnerships with news organizations and shifting the roles of the journalist in the age of information. (2) He gained the ability to shape and re-shape global events, governments, corporations, and the public opinion through a strategic communication process based on leaks. (3) He sparked the flame on public debate about the transparency of information and contributed to an energized movement advocating for government openness, while also pushing many to seek secrecy away from the possibility of being exposed to the public. (4) His alignment with journalism raised questions whether journalists would be prosecuted for handling leaked information of similar kind. (5) And, because of the impact of his organization, more organizations that resembled WikiLeaks came into the spotlight — even news networks — with the goal of advancing the ideals that he first established.
Before diving into the world of Julian Assange and his tremendous impact in the area of mass communication, it is worth noting that we cannot talk about him without mentioning, in detail, WikiLeaks. For WikiLeaks was, and still is, Assange’s creation and the platform that enabled him to act. In the 2016 documentary, Risk, by Laura Poitras, he says it best himself: “I am the heart and soul of this organization, its founder, its philosopher, spokesperson, original coder, organizer, financier and all the rest.”
The documentary was filmed over a period of six years. During that period, Laura Poitras was able to gain unrestricted and unprecedented access to WikiLeaks, Assange, and his inner circle. The film is among many that feature Assange, but in it, he describes his motives and underlying ideology that help us analyze and better understand this enigmatic figure and as well as the root of his actions. In the film, Assange stated that it had been his long-term belief that “what advances us a civilization is the entirety of our understanding,” and what human institutions are actually like. He supports that we are severely lacking in the information from big, secretive organizations “that have such a role in shaping how we all live.” When asked to clarify he said that such institutions are as powerful as the CIA to News Corp. Assange believed that these very institutions that we come to rely on and trust hide the truth from us, and, in many cases, shape our truths. During the end of the film, he says, “the element that causes the world to globalize and produces the changes that we see, including the bad ones, [he] was an expert in.” He says that if we see the global problems that we have a civilization, and if we actually examine them and understand them, then acting locally is “completely inconsequential” relative to what we understand. To him, the only way to act and make the world the way we want it to be, and to remove the qualities that we do not like, is to act globally. But what qualities did Assange want to remove from the world to make it a better place? According to the WikiLeaks Manifesto, which was written by Assange in 2006, his main goal was to “shift regime behavior and create open governments.”Assange saw the injustice that was taking place, from local governments to national ones, and he knew that a culture of secrecy existed which favored those in power. He was, and still is, presumably, against authoritarian regimes, and he made it his goal to “open” them to the world. In a few words, he believed in the idea of knowledge is power, and that transparency is required to have an open, just, and free society.
