One month of running!
Learnings from one month of running streak: 

        Along with many of my friends, I am about to take the 100 days of running challenge. As a head start/practice to the actual challenge, that begins this April 28, I decided to test what is it like to run continuously for a month and began experimenting with different challenges of the run. Sharing those here thinking they would be of help to you. These are just thoughts from an amateur runner, please don’t expect a lot out of it. But I’m sure it would help the newbies to complete the challenge in flying colors. 

The last month was little busy as we had CRM’s release of the year and I was quite occupied with this. I couldn’t afford a lot of time or energy during this period. So planned for long runs only on the weekends and 2km runs otherwise, eventually, trying to maintain an average of 3+ km per day. 

Physical effort: 
        Now the physical effort required to run the challenge. It is very easy to run the minimal distance mentioned in the challenge(2km/day). It would take a maximum of 25 mins including the stretches for the workout even if you are very casual and have just begun to run. 

Run at different times of the day/situations/workouts: 
        I tried running at almost all times of the day - before dawn, late morning, late afternoon, evening, night and even late nights. I would personally advise you to avoid late night runs if you are an early riser. You might not get enough rest for the next day and can feel drained all day until you catch a good sleep. My favorite time is early in the morning as you will find a lot of time then and in case you feel like extending your workout and push yourself more, you will have time to do it. One thing I noted was it was easy if you follow a strict time for the runs. This would give you enough time to recover for the future runs. You can thank me later when you see the results when you follow this. 

All in different conditions like deserted roads, GST, trails, flyovers, apartment, busy streets and also on a treadmill. My personal favorites are trails, shady roads and I hate running in the apartment or treadmill as the run could go monotonic being in the same place throughout your workout. Also, try to bring variation in your daily runs, say doing different workouts like aerobic runs, race pace runs, distance runs, hill repeats, surges, core workouts etc. If the nearby places are boring and you have explored a lot, go take your bike pedal for a while, park it and go for a run afterward. Doing different workouts would improve your motivation and make the run a fun activity. 

Planning for the next day: 
        This is another important aspect which is to be kept in mind throughout the challenge. Coz if you fail to run in the morning and you have a definite commitment which you cannot avoid, the challenge is over. So be little clear what your plans are gonna be and when can you fit your workout time in next day’s schedule. When in doubt, I wear my running shoes and take my running kit with me. The same applies when you travel too. Once in a travel, my running clothes were heavier compared to normal packing I had done. Who knows at the end of 100 days you might become one time management guru, which you’d have never seen in yourself 

Diet: 
        I don’t think there is anything special needed for this simple daily challenge. However, I would give a small advice. Have a good amount of carbohydrates before you go for a long run. Also within half an hour of your workout is completed, try to put something healthy in your stomach as once all your bad fat is burned, our body will start consuming the good cholesterol slowly. While running your muscles will slowly run out of oxygen. So don’t forget to hydrate yourself well, since it is summer and running requires lots of Oxygen which can be supplied by water. 

Relaxing and Stretches and rest: 
        Give some time for your body to completely relax after the workout and just feel how the workout was. What went wrong, if any and how better you feel after the workout. Once you have begun to cool down, don’t forget the stretches. Basic stretches for the thighs, calves, hamstring, and quadriceps are a must after you give them a good exercise. Finally, have a good night’s sleep after you have had a great workout. If you don’t rest well, your performance will slowly deteriorate not only in the run but also in the workplace and normal life. You will feel drained, lack of rest might bring in drowsiness, let's be clear on this. To get adequate rest. 

More than all these, listen to your body while you run, if it is difficult while running slow down, if it is too easy and you aren’t breaking any sweat, push a little harder and go for your best. All days will not be same so it is normal that you don’t consistently beat your personal best. Also don’t just stick with the daily 2km mark, fix a milestone to achieve after 100 days of running and conquer it like a boss. Last but not least, don’t forget to put a smile on your face and motivate others towards leading a healthy lifestyle. Cheers! 

You can follow my activities on Strava: https://www.strava.com/athletes/14301524 
I have also created a separate channel for 100 days of running which is waiting for approval from the admin. Feel free to join and collaborate there. 

@Experienced Runners, if you have any suggestions too, please add as comments in the below thread for everyone to learn!